KATs
----

The KATs in this directory are different form the KATs that are published 
in the official [BIKE website](https://bikesuite.org/) (on May 10, 2020).
These KATs were generated by the version of 
[Reference Implementation](https://bikesuite.org/files/v4.0/Reference_Implementation.2020.05.03.1.zip) 
from May 03, 2020.

The differences stem from a different interpretation of BIKE's specification: 

[BIKE_Spec.2020.05.03.1.pdf](https://bikesuite.org/files/v4.0/BIKE_Spec.2020.05.03.1.pdf).

- The number of seeds that are required for the key generation method is 2. 
This is applied in this package. By contrast, the Reference implementation derives 
three seeds, but uses only two of them, namely seeds `0` and `2`. 
This is redundant and skipped here. 

- The `H` function receives a 256-bits seed as input, and outputs an error 
vector. The Reference implementation includes an extra step that first hashes the seed, 
using SHA-384, and then uses the truncated digest (to 256 bits) as a new seed. 
This is not compliant with the current BIKE specification (and is also not needed).

- This code package treats the inputs to the `H`,`K`,`L` functions as follows. 
The inputs are first formatted into a sequence of bytes, where (when needed) 
the most-significant bits are padded from above, to the next boundary of a byte. 
For example: a=10001(=0x11) has 5 bits. It is padded with 3 bits from above, 
to the boundary of a byte. In this case, it becomes 00010001 
(it is still =0x11, but the hash function would operate on a full byte, rather than 5 bits). 

This padding is applied to c0, c1 (that does not need padding), e0, e1. 
Then, the (concatenated) arrays of bytes are hashed, using SHA384. 
The digest is truncated accordingly. 
